# Django REST Framework API Project This is a Django REST framework project, designed to provide a RESTful API. Follow the instructions below to set up and run the project. ## Requirements - Python 3.8 or higher - Django 3.2 or higher - Django REST framework 3.12 or higher - A PostgreSQL or SQLite database (or other supported Django databases) ## Getting Started ### 1. Clone the Repository Clone the repository to your local machine: ```bash git clone https://github.com/your-username/your-drf-project.git cd your-drf-project ``` ### 2. Create a Virtual Environment It is recommended to use a virtual environment to manage dependencies. Run the following commands: ```bash python -m venv venv source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate` ``` ### 3. Install Dependencies Install the project dependencies using pip: ```bash pip install -r requirements.txt ``` ### 4. Configure Environment Variables Copy the example environment file and modify it according to your settings: ```bash cp .env.example .env ``` Edit the `.env` file to configure your database, secret key, and other settings. ### 5. Set Up the Database Run the following commands to create the necessary database tables: ```bash python manage.py migrate ``` If you are using PostgreSQL or another external database, make sure your `.env` file reflects the appropriate configuration. ### 6. Create a Superuser (Optional) To access the Django admin panel and manage your application, create a superuser: ```bash python manage.py createsuperuser ``` ### 7. Start the Development Server Run the Django development server with the following command: ```bash python manage.py runserver ``` The server will start on `http://127.0.0.1:8000/`. ### 8. Access the API You can now access the API at `http://127.0.0.1:8000/api/` (or the relevant endpoint for your project). Use tools like `curl`, Postman, or your preferred frontend to interact with the API. ### Additional Commands - **Running Tests**: To run the project's test suite: ```bash python manage.py test ``` - **Linting**: You can use linters like flake8 or black for code consistency: ```bash flake8 .   # or black . for formatting ``` ## Project Structure A brief overview of the project structure: - `api/` - Main app directory for the API logic. - `settings.py` - Django settings, including REST framework and database configuration. - `urls.py` - Defines the URL structure for the API endpoints. - `models.py` - Database models. - `views.py` - API views (CRUD operations). - `serializers.py` - Serializers to convert models to JSON. ## Troubleshooting If you encounter issues: 1. Make sure your `.env` file has the correct settings. 2. Ensure all dependencies are installed (`pip install -r requirements.txt`). 3. Check that your database server is running if you are using PostgreSQL or MySQL. ## License This project is licensed under the MIT License.
